# Summary

-   **Masters in Computer Science** from **Indiana State University**
    with 15+ years of experience.

-   **Lead Software Engineer** at Broadridge Financial Solutions.

-   Strong **communication**, **interpersonal**, **analytical** &
    **problem-solving** skills.

-   Experience multiple programming language(s) **C#**, **Python**,
    **TypeScript**, & **BASH** Scripting.

-   Advanced understanding of **agile methodologies**, Application
    Resiliency, & Security.

-   Proficient in all aspects of the **Software Development Life
    Cycle**.

-   Ambition to solve **tough** & **challenging** problems using
    analytical methods.

-   Experience working with **distributed systems**.

-   Proficiency in creating **multi-threaded application** design &
    development.

-   Experience with implementing **RESTful APIs** using Dotnet Core Web
    APIs using **Microservices** architecture.

-   Experience using **Kafka** as a message broker in a **pub-sub
    architecture**.

-   Experience using **Redis** as a **Caching** tool.

-   Experience with **AWS Services** including S3, Lambda, RDS, EC2, &
    Kinesis

-   Competency in architecturing solutions using different **design
    patterns** namely **Singleton**, **Factory**, **Facade**,
    **Dependency Injection**, etc.

-   Extensive exposure with **onsite/off-shore coordination**.

-   Result oriented & self-motivated individual with full commitment
    towards creating value

-   Quick learner, self-starter, individual contributor, & **effective
    team player**.

-   Possess excellent interpersonal skills to interact with the
    **client/team members**.

-   Experience in dealing with **end users**, **gathering
    requirements**, & coordinating all facets of a complex project.

-   Active participant in **interviewing** & **hiring** new associates.

-   Experience in developing compilers, configuration & log parsing
    **Lex/Yacc(Bison)** in C/C++.

# Technical Skills

**Dotnet Core** 8.0/6.0, **C#**, **Python**, **BASH**, Angular,
**TypeScript**, **Web API**, **RESTful Services**, LINQ, SQL Server
2019/2022, MSTest, NUnit, **Moq Framework**, **Git**, Jira, **Jenkins**,
**Docker**, **Kubernetes**, ReSharper, dotCover, dotTrace, **Visual
Studio 2022/2019**, Windows Server 2016/2022, **Ubuntu/Linux**,
**BASH**, **Vim**, Latex, MongoDB, S3, Lambda, RDS, EC2, & Kinesis,
**Kafka**, **Redis**, **Agile**, Pub-Sub Architecture,
**Microservices**, C/C++, Lex/Yacc

# Professional Experience

# Broadridge Financial Solutions (Brentwood, NY)

Broadridge is the leading provider of investor communications &
technology-driven solutions for wealth & asset management & capital
markets firms.

### Lead Software Engineer

July 2022 - Current (2 years 6 months)

### Sr. Software Engineer

April 2017 - June 2022 (5 years 3 months)

## Responsibilities

### Technical Leadership

Led technical design, implementation, and testing of complex software
solutions. Championed best practices in software development, including
coding standards, design patterns, and testing methodologies.

### Agile Development

Spearheaded agile development processes, including sprint planning,
daily stand-ups, and retrospectives. Actively participated in story
refinement and assignment, ensuring efficient and effective delivery.

### DevOps Engineering

Built and maintained robust DevOps pipelines using Python, Jenkins, and
BASH on Linux (RHEL) to automate CI/CD processes. Streamlined deployment
and reduced time-to-market.

### Team Collaboration

Collaborated closely with cross-functional teams, including product
owners, designers, and QA engineers, to deliver high-quality software
solutions. Provided technical guidance and mentorship to junior
developers, fostering a culture of continuous learning and improvement.

### Client Engagement

Worked directly with clients to understand their needs, gather
requirements, and deliver solutions that exceeded expectations.
Onboarded new clients and provided ongoing support, ensuring a seamless
user experience.

### Problem-Solving and Innovation

Analyzed complex technical challenges, developed innovative solutions,
and effectively resolved issues. Contributed to the continuous
improvement of the product through feature enhancements and bug fixes.

# InfoTrax Systems (Auburn, AL)

InfoTrax enables customers to calculate distributors' compensations with
speed & accuracy - maximizing business performance. Every feature of our
software & every service we offer is built to support the compensation
plan & the relationship between our clients & their distributors.

### Software Engineer

April 2015 - March 2017 (2 years)

## Responsibilities

### Full-Stack Development

Contributed to the entire software development lifecycle, from
requirements gathering and design to development, testing, and
deployment.

### Problem-Solving and Bug Fixing

Collaborated with product managers to identify and resolve software
defects, ensuring optimal application performance and user experience.

### Technical Innovation

Led a company-wide modernization initiative, implementing industry best
practices to improve development efficiency and code quality.

### Process Improvement

Streamlined development workflows by integrating Git and Atlassian Jira,
enhancing collaboration and version control.

# Indiana State University (Terre Haute, IN)

Institutional Research (IR) at Indiana State University is committed to
providing accessible, accurate, and relevant data to support data-driven
decision-making. By enhancing data access, delivering insightful
analysis, and fostering a data-driven culture, IR empowers the
university to make informed strategic choices that benefit students,
faculty, staff, and the broader community.

### Software Engineer

January 2014 - March 2015 (1 year 3 months)

## Responsibilities

### Full-Stack Development

Led the entire software development lifecycle, from requirements
analysis and system design to development, testing, and deployment.

### Framework Expertise

Leveraged the ColdBox MVC framework to build robust and scalable web
applications.

### Data Management

Designed and implemented complex database structures using MS SQL Server
2012, including stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages.

### User Interface Development

Created intuitive and visually appealing user interfaces using HTML5,
CSS3, and Bootstrap.

### Front-End Development

Implemented advanced UI features such as multi-file upload using jQuery
and customizable grid views with filtering, sorting, and expandable
rows.

### Content Management

Configured and managed Mura CMS for the public-facing website.

### Project Management

Utilized Jira to track and manage project tasks, bugs, and feature
requests.

# Other Projects

# Ampsys Wealth ERP, (Bangalore, India)

### Software Engineer

April 2013 - December 2013 (9 months)

# CavalierIT, (Edison, NJ)

### Software Engineer

October 2011 - March 2013 (1 year 6 months)

# Indiana State University, (Terre Haute, IN)

### Software Engineer

January 2010 - August 2011 (1 year 8 months)

# Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, (Kanpur, India)

### Software Engineer

July 2007 - June 2009 (2 years)

# Education

-   **Masters in Computer Science**, Indiana State University

-   **Bachelors in Computer Science & Engineering**, Dr. A.P.J. Abdul
    Kalam Technical University
